my name is Spencer Kimball I'm one of
the co-founders and the CEO of a company
called cockroach labs you might wonder
why we called it cockroach Labs we
actually make a database that's
extremely resilient called cockroachdb
so that's a big part of my talk today
I'm really building for growth and
resilience through maybe seed pre-seed
through where we are today Series F at
least that's where I can give any advice
and actually in this journey that I've
been on with cockroach Labs it's almost
been a decade and on the way I've done a
lot of Angel Investing so I've invested
in more than 80 different startups some
of them have already been acquired or
went out of business many of them are
still going the pace is really picked up
recently with AI so there's a lot of
exciting stuff out there but when I
invest I'm also being looked at to be an
advisor
and I take that role pretty seriously
and I found that a lot of the questions
I get are repeated so there's there's a
lessons to be drawn there and I'm just
going to share some of that with
everyone in the audience
so there's three stages of growth I'm
going to cover in this talk from zero to
one one to ten ten to a hundred someone
early on told me that zero to one is
impossible one to ten is improbable and
ten to a hundred is inevitable so this
is a little bit of a sobering stat here
90 of startups fail uh you know the I
think that maybe one big question here
is what's the single most important bit
of advice I could give especially in
those early stages where I think a lot
of this stat comes true to build from
nothing to something that actually has a
chance a real shot at making it and I
think that is avoid building in a bubble
and this is something I learned the hard
way uh you know I think it's very
tempting when you're very early on in
the journey to believe that idea is
precious and even sometimes you'll be
working on an idea with someone and they
don't actually go into building the
company with you and they expect Equity
I think that's nonsense ideas are not
worth the paper the napkin they're
written on it's actually about execution
like that's the that's the thing that
you can really bring to the the idea to
make it a reality uh I'd say that no
matter how good your ideas or how novel
it seems the best ideas are arrived by
multiple people at the same time this is
even true for example uh in the biggest
sort of advances in physics or
mathematics once an idea sort of gets
ripe in the ecosystem there's a lot of
things that are feeding that so multiple
people come up with them and when you go
and you talk to VCS they've heard of
something quite a bit like your idea I
think there's this tendency for people
to get very cagey about it they want the
VC to sign an NDA for example that's a a
big mistake that actually makes you look
very naive and somewhat unserious to a
venture capital in a venture capitalist
when you ask for an NDA instead what you
want to do is you want to get as much
feedback as you can about your idea and
I actually go a step further if you
actually can talk to a potential
competitor in this space about your idea
you should do so you'd be surprised at
what you learn and you know it can be a
little bit intimidating certainly when
you go and you talk to a venture capital
uh you know set of Partners and you you
tell them your idea and they tell you oh
you know what that sounds exactly like
something I just heard about have you
heard of company X
and you have not heard of company X
right this is a terrible feeling in the
pit of your stomach when that when that
situation unfolds but after that meeting
you go home you look up the company and
you realize oh that is quite a bit like
like what we're doing but actually we're
doing something that I think is better
or I just got an idea of how we need to
refine what we're building and then the
next time you have a meeting and that
company X comes up you've got a you've
got a very clear description of what the
differentiation is so you really want to
open your idea up to all that sunlight
so that it evolves quickly
so this is a slightly different view
different data different time frame
which is why the numbers are different
you can see there's a a pretty high
probability relatively speaking
something like nine percent at the
pre-series a to get an m a so uh that
that number cumulatively goes up to
about 16 in this data set uh I think
that uh by the time you get to that
Series E most companies no longer exist
and the in the in the I think the good
case here many of them have been I mean
relatively many have been actually
acquired after that stage you're either
going to fail I guess your IPO but the
numbers are fairly small
[Applause]
so I'm going to cover this talk in three
stages and each one having sort of three
main ideas there's a lot I'm not going
to cover
but one of the most important bits of
advice here is about raising early
rounds and there's often a question I
get should I raise a seed or a pre-seed
or a series a and I think it really
depends you know how hot is the space
what's the product category these days I
think if you're doing something in
generative AI you're probably going to
get shuttled into doing a series a and
that might not always be appropriate and
also how how good is the team how
credible what have they built before how
good is the how far along really is the
product or idea is there for example an
open source product already made on
GitHub with a lot of stars those kinds
of things will uh you know really I
think set the the tone of what sort of
stage the Venture capitalists think that
you're in
with seeds though that can be extremely
expensive it's if it's a priced round so
I I will often advise people try to do a
safe instead of a seed actually getting
a price round has some advantages but
because of the high degree of risk at
that early stage Venture capitalists are
often expecting more than 20 percent
uh and you're going to have to
eventually do a series a and that's
going to be another something like 20
because the risk is still perceived to
be quite high again depending on how hot
the product category is you you can
control that dilution but actually
brings uh me to the next plane which I I
don't think that it makes a lot of sense
to optimize for dilution early on
instead what I think people should be
looking at is just how much money do you
really need in order to get to that
stage where you get product Market fit
that's the thing you can really trade
with a venture capitalist typically
that's what they're looking for they
have a sort of percentage in mind and
they're not really very um concerned
with how much money is going to go into
it so you can say well if you want 20 or
whatever it is we can get there but
let's raise 10 million instead of 7
million or 5 million and I just need a
higher valuation to do that and that's
typically where you're going to get some
some trade there
I think the other really big thing about
these early rounds that I you should
really optimize for is The credibility
of the Venture capitalists so it's the
firm and it's also the partner because
this is going to be a what I've been
told a lifelong marriage and and that
has proven true in my case that very
first investor we had he's on the board
and he's been an incredible asset to the
company uh through all of this stages uh
you know that that credibility actually
is is crucial in the subsequent rounds
of funding it's crucial for the early
employees that you hire who are Risk
Takers and actually pay attention to the
signal of what the venture capital is
that early lead investor and also this
is true of early customers that are kind
of in the innovator early adopter stage
of the crossing the chasm and they also
look is it Sequoia that's a really good
signal to these kinds of early assets to
the company that are crucial to success
uh so really if you if you have uh your
choice here optimized for The
credibility the intelligence of that
initial investor because they're
actually going to be an advisor and
that's what you want to select for
and also if you have a lot of interest
great thing great thing for negotiation
don't think that means you just have to
settle for the the the the best most
optimized lead investor and the rest are
are going to go somewhere else you can
actually uh in that sort of a situation
dictate the terms and you can create a
sausage that includes all of the
investors that are interested you give
them uh your your lead as long as you
meet sort of their minimum requirement
they're often happy to have other uh
relatively High tier investors as part
of the the larger deal and that actually
means you've got more networks which is
always a good thing
it's actually a uh an expectation on the
part of those additional investors that
they're going to potentially lead
subsequent rounds so you might even have
that lead or a price Setter built in uh
to your cap table and also you block
competitors
to the extent that you've got a lot of
good VCS that want to be part of it
that's going to give you I think a
bigger Advantage as you're going to
Market
so I want to touch a little bit more on
this idea of just ideas and what else is
involved here so you know the idea is
worthless on its own I made that point
but execution's everything so this Blood
Sweat and Tears all of that Sweat Equity
you put in but then there's this point
that you need to work smarter not harder
and the execution if it's sort of blind
you're going to end up with a sort of
local maximum if even that instead what
you need to do is you need to inform all
of that effort with a Visionary belief
in what you're doing and that's what you
bring as a Founder it's more even than
the than the execution do you have
belief in what you're doing that sort of
borders on foreknowledge that's what you
have to cultivate and even believe
so the second big Point here is culture
and this isn't an intangible and it's a
difficult thing to get right but it's
something that you have to establish
early in your journey because it scales
with the company or it doesn't scale
with the company I really learned this
lesson lesson the hard way I worked at
Google for about a decade with my
co-founders and after Google we did a
different startup before cockroach labs
and it was called viewfinder and we
thought because Google had a pretty cool
culture that that would just come along
with us because we were the founders and
we had really absorbed Google's culture
we thought it would just naturally you
know take shape that did not happen in
fact what we ended up with was a culture
where everyone worked really hard and
then went their separate ways afterwards
and when things stopped working very
well for us and we ran into some
significant difficulties we didn't have
those ties those human connections that
really led us kind of run the marathon
get through the hardships because we
believed in each other and we liked each
other fundamentally so that uh company
eventually had an aqua higher we went to
square and we saw that square had a
pretty uh very different culture from
Google but a good culture as well which
we enjoyed and so when we decided that
we were going to even consider doing
another startup which was cockroach we
actually sat down we wrote a Manifesto
on culture before we even Incorporated
the company
not having to suffer uh through you know
one year two years three years or
whatever with a culture where people
didn't really like each other and what
did we write in that Manifesto it was
kind of like a list of things that we
were going to do like intention uh the
the sort of patterns we were going to
set like we were going to go every year
take the whole company go to the
Caribbean or something like that uh work
for a week from there and uh just you
know have fun together every Tuesday we
went out to dinner so not all of those
ideas scaled but when you set those
early patterns you attract people like
your very website is kind of you know
you can't help but communicate some of
the excitement that you like each other
so then you attract people that care
about culture and then those people
start to run with the culture and they
help to evolve it as time goes by
so also Equity this is an important
thing and I think this actually goes
very much to the point of building
culture this is a sort of unique in my
experience so far a way to to do early
equity for employees but what we decided
to do is create a system and it had some
sort of rules of thumb that I'd heard
from Venture capitalists about how much
Equity you should give to the early
employees and what we did was we
actually made a model basically I'll
give you a little bit more details in
the next slide but the idea here was
that it would be very open transparent
and when we explained it to early
employees they believed that it was
logical that it was thoughtful and that
the company was being fair kind of the
thought experiment in our heads was if
everyone compared all of their equity
and their positions and it was all put
into a spreadsheet by you know the the
the most activists of our employees and
people wouldn't have any surprises it
would kind of make sense or at least it
could be defended
and and also when you're in those early
conversations with employees this is a
good way to cut down on on the friction
that comes from negotiation
so this is sort of how it worked there's
this fall off and what you're trying to
do is you're trying to balance the risk
that earlier employees take with the
equity that they're being awarded and
there was a sort of a one 1X factor for
the very first employee and then that
falls off to about 0.12 and and what
we're trying to do this is sort of
empirically determined is say that the
first 20 employees of the company would
would have 10 of the equity and the next
20 employees would have an additional
five percent of the equity and then the
next 40 employees would have an
additional five percent of the equity so
there's this sort of exponential falloff
uh and what we did is we we said that
there was a I think we listed out maybe
12 different employer roles that would
be the the ones that we really needed in
the first 20 from a VP of engineering to
uh front-end Engineers that were
relatively Junior and everything in
between uh that at least we knew about
at that time that list grew quite long
over time what we did is a Monte Carlo
simulations we just programmed this in
and we ran this thousand times sometimes
the VP engineering would be first mostly
not sometimes it'd be a junior employee
first but they had different sort of
Base equities and then you apply this
fall off and the Monte Carlo simulation
showed that this is very stable that
almost always we were very close to that
10 for the first 20 employees and then
five for the next 20 and five for the
next 40. so that actually worked out
well and we explained this to people
I've actually given this this
spreadsheet for this to to many of the
the companies that I advised and it
worked really well I think people
certainly appreciated this you don't
last with this model for for very long I
don't know if we kept it until the 80th
employee you find other mechanisms
Beyond this but it's a good way to start
early
so let's talk about the next stage so
this would be somewhere around B and C
you're kind of at the product Market fit
and you're getting your early customers
and actually in the sea level you're
starting to find the repeatability of
your sales motion
foreign
so this is a question I get a lot and
maybe I'd ask people to raise their
hands again who's actually doing
anything with open source in their
product
so there's there's some but I imagine in
2015 if I ask the question there'd be a
lot more cockroach is an open source
product in 2015 it was kind of
inconceivable to think about a database
that was very sophisticated that wasn't
open source that seemed like it would be
counterproductive for us so we started
as open source and we had open core is
what it's called if you have an open
source core and then you create
Enterprise features around it and that
sort of protects the business model that
really got torpedoed by some of the
behavior for example of AWS early on
what are the benefits of Open Source
there's a lot of them if you have a
well-tended open source Community you
can have really an asymmetric
information Advantage Plus you get a lot
of participation from the community so
they can contribute new features they
can do bug fixes for you they can
actually do Integrations for the larger
ecosystem and even Provide support in
sort of a community forum and they also
attract huge players like these open
source is often what meta wants and
apple wants and Goldman Sachs right
because they want to reap a lot of
benefits without necessarily you know
paying for the true scale that they're
anticipating
and actually the companies I invest in
are usually in the dev tools space or
infrastructure machine learning those
kinds of areas and everyone in in those
categories at least is very tempted by
the advantages of Open Source but
there's also extremely significant costs
to doing open source I mentioned before
there's some exploitative behavior from
the cloud service providers particularly
AWS and so you have to be very careful
about your license if you're doing open
source I would not just have a a very
powerful core that for examples with the
Apache license that that's shown been
shown to be a difficult sort of business
model to protect
it's also actually very difficult to
manage one of these open source
communities they can be fragile at first
and you have to tend them carefully it
actually takes a significant amount of
inputs and attention
and these big players I mentioned before
like apple they actually sometimes just
want support and they don't want your
Enterprise features because they really
are trying to control their costs at
massive scales or they actually demand
huge amounts of Leverage over your
product roadmap and sometimes depending
on the product category that can mean
each one of these big players even
though they're trying to give you a lot
of money wants to pull your product in a
different direction but the really worst
thing about trying to do open source and
and also of course trying to build a
cloud service which you fundamentally
need to do more at the SAS conference
here uh in 2023 is that you're actually
going to build two different companies
much less two different products and
there's uh
fundamentally different features the
different security requirements
different contract Contracting and
procurement between these you can have
different roles you probably can have
different ideal customer profiles it's a
lot to keep in everyone's head and a
company much better to have a more
narrow definition of all of these things
so I'd say that if you're starting from
scratch in 2023
you should only ever consider doing both
of these things at the same time if
you're ICP that that you just believe is
really the the the sort of narrow set of
potential customers out there that
really need and want your product if
they're not willing to use a cloud
service yet and I'd say you probably
need to start with open source or at
least that's a reasonable thing to do
otherwise the reality is that cloud
services have a faster time to Value
which is exactly why open source killed
closed source
now it's the cloud service that's
providing that that faster route because
you don't have to learn how to run the
software yourself and train that
capability and expertise in-house
and also cloud services are a much
better business model I mean much much
better because you're actually able to
capture a lot more of the value as the
usage scales when a customer's
self-managing your product whether it's
open source or closed Source you don't
get access to all of the potential
benefits of having economies of scale
for example the people that run the
system or all of the networking and
hardware and Cloud costs that are
associated with running the product so
you actually you're attaching yourself
to a much larger chunk of Revenue when
you have cloud and it ends up being much
more scalable and less discount
so in this stage you're going to have to
build a go to market function from
scratch which can be actually pretty
challenging if you're a technical
founder because this is something you
might not be very familiar with I
certainly wasn't
uh and you know maybe the the first
thing to really I think the most
important thing to try to get right
although it's definitely an evolution is
what is your ideal customer profile so
it's very rare that you're going to be
the first product in any kind of
category so to beat all of the
incumbents that are there you have to be
10 times better it's almost impossible
to be 10 times better at everything that
that involved product category has but
you can be 10 times better if you define
a niche in that product category that
you can dominate
so where can you find the 10x
Improvement and ideally that Niche is
something that is ascendantly valuable
so it's a small part of the the larger
Tam but you believe that over time it's
going to become far more important
so this is going to feel very
constrained right when you have that
initial pitch deck to the investors you
were talking about this massive Tam you
were going to attack but the reality is
that this is a good thing because it
allows you to crawl and then to walk and
then to run and that progression is
extremely valuable for you because the
narrower your Niche it's easier to
Define who that ideal customer is that
means you have better messaging you can
actually prioritize your roadmap so
you're directly suiting the needs of
this ideal customer profile I think one
piece of advice I got early on around
marketing but it applies in in many
different domains is really if you're
building or trying to talk to everyone
you're not building or talking really to
anyone
that's like a that's a good thing to
wrap your head around uh when you when
you know that customer you can build for
them you can find them you can
communicate with an extremely resonant
message
and then you have to practice discipline
because there's always going to be a
company that comes around that totally
busts out of your ICP or kind of that
Niche that you're trying to Define and
boy it looks very lucrative and I'm only
saying this and given this advice
because I've made the mistake countless
times it's so tempting but every time
you do it you're you're really
bifurcating uh you know your efforts or
you know maybe quite a bit more than
that and and that is a a very difficult
road to go down and and to come back
from which you inevitably will
so in these early go to market the
founder CEO Founders everyone should be
involved
and in in this all the stages of the
process you need to get out there and
understand from the customers what their
pain points are you want to if you're in
those early conversations and you're
just talking about your product and
selling it and talking about all its
features and greatness you're doing it
wrong you need to be actively listening
to what that customer is telling you and
ultimately you want to be able to walk
away if they're not telling you
something that actually uh fits in you
don't want to make a a square peg into
the round hole that's a very
counterproductive
so when you're at this stage you may do
a little bit of this yourself but when
you actually start getting some
customers you feel that you're starting
to get a product that is matching with
the needs you're going to want to find
an early sales leader you should
probably call this a head of sales don't
hire a VP of sales you want to find
somebody that actually has done
something quite a bit like this stage
recently and was successful
this is exploratory motion and you want
someone that's going to roll their
sleeves and actually do the selling I'll
just caution this it can seem like
you know sellings you know something
that you can do you understand the
product best but there's a lot of skill
in this process so it's kind of like
hiring assuming that if you're not an
engineer you could actually be the VP of
engineering or something like that it's
a mistake I've seen uh happen
occasionally you really do need to find
somebody that's good at this and often
if you're selling a technical product
they're going to come with a sales
engineer they kind of work as a pair and
that person is really going to
intuitively explore the space find out
who will buy your product how much
they're going to spend on it and
actually most of sales is is is Human
Relationships especially if you're
talking about an Enterprise product of
some sort or were you trending in that
direction and these people are extremely
good at this relationship building and
actually being so persistent to close
one of these deals it's often you know
tens hundreds of calls over the course
of the of the cycle
and finally a little bit about board
meetings
so I mentioned that this early board is
going to be composed typically of
investors I'm sure that's what everyone
in this room has found and that's why
it's so important to really select for
intelligence and credibility in those
early stages because these VCS they're
actually really good pattern matchers
they've got a huge amount of information
about the larger ecosystem and in that
board meeting what they can steer you on
I think most successfully is what are
the common patterns of failures and
successes like what do they see even
within your space they have Intel on
your peers and competitors and they can
tell you does this look good or does
this not look good how's your monthly
burn is this kind of unhealthy what are
the expectations for growth when do you
need to raise again all these kinds of
things that are going to be very
difficult especially if you're a
first-time founder to to have any idea
on your own
so they also typically don't have
operational experience so they don't
have much of it or it's been a long time
so as your board meetings happen quarter
in quarter out you need to think about
when the right time is to add an
independent that's going to start
bringing more operational experience to
your board
so the best thing about board meetings I
think is it's an opportunity to sort of
stop and take a step back and say what
what are we doing here so even if you're
not getting necessarily useful advice in
a particular board meeting so this is
very true I think at the earlier stages
where you're just trying to build the
product this is an opportunity to
document to verbalize what you're
working on so it's really important to
set some goals even at the early stages
and you kind of want to put if you can a
bit of a quantitative metric into these
goals should probably have somewhere
between five and ten maybe less in
earlier stages and More in later stages
and you set sort of an annual Target so
the longer term View and also you want
to break that down into quarterly
milestones and then in each of these
board meetings you create a briefing
document shouldn't be more than like six
pages but it should be an analysis in
the first section of what happened in
the past quarter what were the goals we
said
how did we measure up against those
goals and what are the hypotheses that
we have for why we succeeded or failed
to reach those goals and that should
actually be very much informed by the
actions you set out to take and then the
next section is the plan for the quarter
ahead and it's sort of similar but it's
here's what we're going to do what are
the major resource expenditures we're
going to contemplate in order to
actually meet the next quarter's goals
and when you when you look back on these
and you have them quarter after quarter
after quarter for years this is an
incredible uh sort of uh documentation
of the journey you've taken as a company
and it can be great for successive
rounds of funding for due diligence and
when you hire like a very seasoned
executive this is an amazing thing to to
give to them because it lets them catch
up on the Journey of the company uh and
those the last year of those board
briefing docs can be really pivotal to
their understanding and you you know you
don't want to hide anything in these
this is critically important because you
want that new investor or that new
executive that comes in to understand
what they're getting into to be excited
about the problems
so now we're talking about series C and
Beyond
so there's just an evolution of the
different uh
uh you know aspects the board the the
leadership the customers I'd say the
critical thing in this stage is to
really create a sense in the entire
company that your customers success is
fundamentally your success and it's
always going to be your most important
responsibility uh to inspire a vision
internally and externally as the CEO and
founder and and that is vital
fundamentally uh to making your customer
successful and understanding what the
the problems are that you're solving for
them
so a little bit more about the the sales
function uh you know I mentioned before
that early on it's very intuitive but
eventually it becomes engineering
so that early go to market leader that
rolls up their sleeves they probably
won't scale very far with you maybe a
year that's actually pretty good next
you're going to look for a leader that's
more of a manager that's going to be
able to to do the early scaling of the
organization it's actually a really
common mistake to believe that a really
successful account executive is going to
make a good VP of sales or a sales
manager these are two extremely
different things one is coaching and one
is being an independent contributor the
the uh the the experience that I've had
is that there's a a new skill set and
there's there's a real um sort of fork
in the road that people take in a sales
career and you want to find someone that
actually as a coach that's going to
reinforce behaviors hygiene and
Salesforce the active listening skills
that every uh every sales process needs
to start with qualifications so you walk
away from deals that aren't good the
negotiation processes account mapping uh
and and these are these are specific
skills that need to be learned and
they're actually continuously reinforced
it's not just a boot camp that a new
seller comes into this is a constant
process of reinforcing these skills
listening to the chorus or gong calls so
you need to find somebody that has that
expertise and that's how you start to
scale when you get to about 10 to 20
sellers then it starts to change into
more of a revenue function and there's a
lot of components to a good Revenue
function but the single most important
one is a healthy and sort of advanced
sophisticated operations functions you
can call it sales Ops or Revenue Ops but
a good one a high performing one means
that you have very precisely defined
segmentation
so you're very careful about how many
accounts each rep has and when you start
to make success in an account you
actually decrease the number of accounts
even your best reps have so they go deep
in them that's just one way to do it but
there needs to be a process
and you actually have a good forecasting
methodology where you're producing
accurate uh predictions in terms of how
each quarter is going to go and and
total visibility so you can slice and
dice all of that segmentation across
your customer set and and see exactly
how the business is going
so this is a very high level I think the
the most important thing to realize here
is that sales ceases to be an intuitive
process and it actually requires that
everything Cascades in the organization
so this type process accurate forecast
and complete accountability for everyone
so I mentioned this before the the
biggest aspect of the series seeing
Beyond is to really own your customers
success
when they're failing you're failing and
so you're really wanting to understand
exactly what problems you're solving for
them do you want to be inspired by your
customers there's really a lot of ways
and I'll just mention three that this
essential aspect of building a business
is obscured one big one is short-term
thinking in sales
and and this is where the the sales
leader and those sales managers are
critically important because you want to
walk away from deals where your product
isn't right for the customer it does not
matter getting a booking an account
booking every customer is trying to buy
like you need to get them successful
with your product before it's actually
Revenue especially before it's recurring
Revenue
and you also need to make sure that
you're not overselling this is a common
thing reps of course want to supersize
their deals and get a big payout in a
quarter but overselling leads to more
churn and churn is is is is is really a
difficult thing to deal with in building
a company instead you want to undersell
and over deliver whoever possible
engineering is actually another common
area where customer success is is I
think um you know horribly
underrepresented and this is almost by
Design you put product managers as a
sort of layer of interaction between
your engineers and your customers but
the reality is that it's not fun for
engineers if all they hear about is when
the customers are having a big failure
you want to actually show them the
success of the customers and actually
Engineers if they're building in a silo
they build incoherent user experiences
for your customers you want Engineers to
watch your customers with the friction
they're having where they're failing as
they're trying to use the product and
also Bottoms Up creativity which is
actually what Engineers can be amazing
at if they're enabled that's actually
fundamentally enabled with customer
empathy so they have to see these
customers they have to hear these
customers
and then last certainly not least as the
founders CEO you need to avoid getting
buried in the increasing complexity of
scaling the organization you need to be
out there on these customer calls early
ones as well as of course the later ones
when you're meeting the economic buyers
uh you know this is I mentioned this
before but your single most important
role as the CEO is to sell that vision
and it's internal and it's external and
you really can't do that unless you're
understanding your customers
so this starts with the CEO and it has
to Cascade to every single employee and
the customers feel the difference
I feel it in terms of how everyone talks
about it how they talk to them even when
they're talking to support and even when
you have egregious product failures and
believe me when you're building a
relational operational database they can
be pretty egregious every one of those
has the seed of a stronger more trusting
relationship with that customer so you
need to embrace even the failure in in
the way you do that is you need to
believe and you need to make everyone in
your organization believe that when the
customer is failing you're failing and
that you need to make your number one
priority is ultimately to make them
successful customers sense them
and so just a little bit about the
changing role as you're scaling here
someone told me early on that there's
three jobs for the CEO and this is true
when your series a and is true in your
Series F you got to keep money in the
bank
you have to sell the vision internally
and externally and you have to fire
yourself
by hiring people to do jobs better than
you when you're not keeping money in the
bank and selling the vision
so you know anyone who has kids here the
job of a parent is always to guide your
kids even when they're adults through
life successfully and that never ends
but when you have bigger kids you've got
bigger problems and this is exactly how
it feels when you're when you're scaling
the company and at a certain point you
get to a stage where you're not doing
any actual work anymore at least that's
what it can feel like you know you may
have started your career as an engineer
or as a product manager those are common
sort of founder roles and you get pretty
far removed from that you never get to
you know roll up your sleeves and get
your hands dirty some CEOs actually
create a week of coding in the year or
in the quarter so there's ways that you
can keep some of that muscle around from
atrophying and also just sort of
satisfying an itch that you have but
ultimately and you have to just take
this to Heart your job is to be the team
lead for the executive team that's your
job
and the executive team's job is to
define the strategy to determine the
actions which are going to implement the
strategy to apportion resources to
achieve the actions to drive
accountability for them and then to
measure success against the strategy and
iterate that's what the executive team
does and you are the leader of that so
you can't get I know this from my own
personal experience we were building a
product before we had customers for
about three years and I was programming
and that was somewhat appropriate at
that stage but there came a point where
I I got advised through people in the
company and through the investors listen
Spencer you need to stop programming I
know you think you're good at it but
this is not your job anymore
uh and that was a difficult transition
but uh you know it it's uh it was
necessary so that's uh
a good piece of advice
so three takeaways here uh seek advisors
not just investors
these are Partners they're going to take
you from seed to scale and it's really
important when you choose that you're
prioritizing I think intelligence just
raw intelligence it's a great one The
Experience they have and the reputation
they have at picking winners and
culture is a true key you're going to be
running a marathon here and this is the
foundation for it it takes you through
the ups and downs those Human
Relationships treat everyone with
respect I think that's the critical
aspect of culture there's all the the
little things you do that bring people
together and you want to set that time
aside but respect in an organization is
is really everything and one way to do
that of course is transparency through
that In fairness through the equity
Awards and I said that that does evolve
over time you'll have a chance to
continue
and finally stay curious
and this is really how by staying close
to your customers close to your product
you inspire that Vision internally and
externally
and that actually helps you evolve
towards your true north which ultimately
is successful customers that are using
your product and expanding their usage
great well thank you everyone
[Applause]